---
layout: post
title: "this keyword 1. When used in functions and objects?"
summary: "The keyword this has many different meanings."
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-02-21 18:40:20 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/this.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/this1/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

### **1-1. When used as is or inside a function, this refers to the window.**

Just create any HTML file and open the `<script>` tag in the middle

First of all, let's print the keyword this to the console window.

```jsx
console.log(this);
```

Then, the this keyword just returns `window {something}`.

<br/>

Similarly, if you call the value `this` inside a normal function,

```jsx
function fn() {
  console.log(this);
}
fn();
```

Likewise, the value 'this' is output as 'window'.

This is the first meaning of 'this'. It is just `window`.

<br/>

**Q. What is a window?**

A. `document.getElementById()`, `alert()`, `console.log()`

A repository for these functions. An archive is nothing special, it's just a big `{object}`.

<br/>

It also stores this value when you create a global variable.

```java
<script>
  var x = 300;
</script>
```

If you create a variable in a large space like this, a variable called `x` is automatically created in a large object called window.

The same goes for functions.

<br/>

### **1-2. When used inside a function in strict mode, `this` is `undefined`.**

```jsx
<script>
  'use strict'; function fn(){console.log(this)}
  fn();
</script>
```

In strict mode, declare a variable without the var keyword, or

Declaring variables with the strange keyword arguments or preventing such mistakes.

In strict mode, when the this keyword is called inside a general function, it is forcibly set to the value of undefined.

<br/>

### 2. There can be functions within the object data type, where the `this` value means 'master'.

```jsx
var obj1 = {
  data: "Kim",
  fn: function () {
    console.log("Goood");
  },
};
```

Just like inserting letters or numbers, you can insert a function like that into an object.

So, how do you use the function

<br/>

```jsx
var obj1 = {
  data: "Kim",
  fn: function () {
    console.log("Goood");
  },
};

obj1.fn();
```

You can write it like this. Then, the word `'Goood'` will be printed in the console window.

Functions that enter an object are called methods in the jargon that seems to exist.

<br/>

However, if you use this inside a method, you get a mysterious value. It's the price of being the owner

```jsx
var obj1 = {
  data: "Kim",
  fn: function () {
    console.log(this);
  },
};

obj1.fn();
```

What would happen if the keyword this was printed instead of the word `Goood`?

`{ data: 'Kim', fn function: f }` Why isn't this value displayed in the console window?

What this is is just `obj1` that you just created.

So, if you use this in a method, <span style="color: red">this means the object that has the method</span>.

If you want to memorize it easily, this refers to 'the owner of the method'.

<br/>

When you create a function or variable roughly inside a script tag, the function or variable is not just created.

```jsx
<script>function fn(){console.log()}</script>
```

The `fn()` you just created is automatically added to an object called window to manage global variables or global functions.

<br/>

So both code (1) and code (2) are the same story from the JavaScript point of view.

```jsx
<script>
  (1) function fn(){console.log(this)}
  (2) window.fn = function(){console.log()};
</script>
```

(2) The syntax is just a syntax for adding function data to an `object` called window. There is nothing difficult.

Anyway, the bottom line is that if you create a global function or a global variable, it will be put inside the window `{object}` like that.

Even if we don't do it on purpose, if we make it into a variable or function, JavaScript automatically puts it in the window.
