---
layout: post
title: "Object-Oriented 4"
summary: "Object oriented 4. Inheritance function (class) that is not easily implemented in the ES6 way"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-03-20 11:30:50 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/obj.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/object-oriented/4
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

<br/>
<span style="color: red"></span>

There is a syntax called `class`.

This is a grammar that helps to create a cool inheritance function using `constructor` and `prototype`.

There is not much difference in terms of syntax and function from the existing `function`, and it is just slightly easier to see.

Let's take a closer look at how to do it.

<br/>

### **Create a `constructor` machine implemented with the ES6 `class` keyword**

<br/>

Everyone knows `constructor` because we did it last time, right?

It was an object picking machine.

If you want to create a `constructor` with the ES6 `class` method, you can follow this.

```jsx
class parent {
  constructor() {
    this.name = "Kim";
  }
}

var child = new parent();
```

That's it. This is the same syntax as the old `function parent (){} something...` syntax for creating machines.

Now, using the `new` keyword, you can create a new object in the machine called the parent you just created.

In the part where you write `constructor()`, you can assign values to newly created objects by adding `this.name` as before.

That's it.

<br/>

### **How do I add inheritable functions?**

<br/>

There are two ways I learned from doing `sayHi` in the past.

1. How to add a function inside `constructor` like `this.sayHi`

2. Was there a way to add it to the machine's `prototype`?

▼ You can do the same thing as number 1, right?

```jsx
class parent {
  constructor() {
    this.name = "Kim";
    this.sayHi = function () {
      console.log("hello");
    };
  }
}

var child = new parent();
```

Then the newly created child will have the `sayHi()` function directly and can use it freely.

<br/>

▼ To add to `prototype` like number 2

```jsx
class parent {
  constructor() {
    this.name = "Kim";
  }
  sayHi() {
    console.log("hello");
  }
}

var child = new parent();
```

You can do it like this.

Just like adding a function to an object.

Then the child can use the `sayHi()` function in the parent's `prototype` when `sayHi()` is written.

(Or you can just do `parent.prototype.sayHi = function(){}`)

<br/>

### **Note that `Object.getPrototypeOf()`**

<br/>

If you put an object in this function, it will output the parent `prototype`.

This function tells you who the object inherits `prototype` from.

You can see that it plays a similar role to the keyword `__proto__`.

<br/>

### **Add parameters inside `constructor`**

<br/>

To add parameters when creating a `constructor` the ES6 way, you can do this:

```jsx
class parnet {
  constructor(n, a) {
    this.name = n;
    this.age = a;
  }
}

var child = new parnet("Park", 30);
```

In this way, you can create a `constructor` with parameters.

When creating a child, you can now enter two parameters.

<br/>

### **Adding multiple functions in `prototype`**

<br/>

```jsx
class parent {
  constructor(n, a) {
    this.name = n;
    this.age = a;
  }
  sayHi() {
    console.log("hi");
  }
  sayHello() {
    console.log("hello");
  }
}

var child = new parent("Park");
```

If you write like this, you can put several functions such as `sayHi` and `sayHello` in `prototype` at the same time.

No big deal.
