---
layout: post
title: "for in / for of loops"
summary: "for in / for of loops and enumerable, iterable properties"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-02-21 10:52:10 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/for.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/for-loops/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

You can think of iterative statements as having two uses.

1. Simple repetition of code
2. When you want to take out the data contained in the data type one by one Use.

Let's look at the for in loop first.

<br/>

### **For in loop is used for objects.**

It is used when you want to take out the data stored in the `Object` data type one by one.

<br/>

```jsx
var obj = { name: "Kim", age: 28 };

for (var key in obj) {
  console.log(obj[key]);
}
```

I use it like this.

(`Key` is a variable name. You can name it as you like.)

Then, the loop statement repeats as many times as the number of data inside the `object`.

Each time it is repeated, the key variable becomes the key value of the data, such as name and age.

<br/>

#### **Features of for in loop 1. Only enumerables are output**

When you create object type

`{ name : 'Kim' }` If you save this, not only the data named `Kim` is saved.

3 secret properties are stored with Kim.

<br/>

```jsx
var obj = { name: "Kim", age: 28 };

console.log(Object.getOwnPropertyDescriptor(obj, "name"));
```

If you want to print out the three secret properties, you can use the above.

So what does this appear in the console window?

<br/>

```jsx
{value: "Kim", writable: true, enumerable: true, configurable: true}
```

These are the attributes secretly stored with `Kim`.

(So the Object data type is a bit heavy)

Here, there is something called **enumerable**, and only the data for which this is `true` can be output by
the `for in` loop.

If you force this to `false`, the `for in` loop skips it.

Anyway, the `for in` loop statement has this principle of operation.

<br/>

#### **Features of the for in loop 2. It also outputs what is stored in the parent's prototype.**

The properties of the object's parent's gene are also output as a loop statement.

Let's try to see if it's real.

<br/>

```jsx
class parent {}
parent.prototype.name = "Park";

var obj = new parent();

for (var key in obj) {
  console.log(obj[key]);
}
```

The data called `Park` is printed even though the parent has it.

This is the downside.

If you don't like this, you need to add an `if statement`.

<bn/>

```jsx
class parent {}
parent.prototype.name = "Park";

var obj = new parent();

for (var key in obj) {
  if (obj.hasOwnProperty(key)) {
    console.log(obj[key]);
  }
}
```

A function called `object.hasOwnProperty()`

This function asks if the `object` has this key value directly.

Returns `true` if yes, `false` if not.

So if you want to iterate only what I have, you must use this.

<br/>

### **for of loop**

<br/>

Let's try it. Very similar to a for in loop.

```jsx
var arr = [2, 3, 4, 5];
for (var doc of arr) {
  console.log(doc);
}
```

In this way, all the data in the `array` can be output to the console window one by one.

as well as the `array` data type.

It is a loop statement that can be applied to data types such as `array`, `character`, `arguments`, `NodeList`, `Map`, and `Set`.

<br/>

However, to be precise, it is a loop statement that can only be applied to `iterable` data types.

What is an `iterable` datatype?

It refers to data types that have a kind of method called [Symbol.iterator]().

<br/>

```jsx
var arr = [2, 3, 4, 5];
console.log(arr[Symbol.iterator]());
```

If you attach it after the `array` data type, something will be printed out, right?

So are the `texts`.

In fact, it is a kind of function that helps output loop statements, but it is not practical, so you do not need to understand it deeply.

You just need to know that if you have this, you can use a `for of` loop.

<br/>

`for of` can also be used in `NodeList`.

The elements we commonly find with selectors such as `document.getElementsByClassName()` or `document.querySelectorAll()`
`[]` It is contained in square brackets, but it is not an `array`, but a data type called `NodeList`.

When you take out and process `HTML` elements in `NodeList` one by one

You can think of it as a repeat statement that can be used very often.
(But note the compatibility of `for of`)

<br/>

### Practice

**Q1. Using the for of loop**

**Try printing the multiplication table from 2nd to 9th in the console window.**

**2 x 1 = 2**

**2 x 2 = 4**

**...**

**9 x 9 = 81**

You can print these characters up to 9 columns.

<br/>

```jsx
let data = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9];
```

<br/>

**Q2. Someone mixed up a typo at the end of the key value.**

```jsx
var products = [
  {
    name1: "chair",
    price1: 7000,
  },
  {
    name2: "sofa",
    price: 5000,
  },
  {
    name1: "desk",
    price3: 9000,
  },
];
```

If there is a single digit at the end of the key value, I want to remove all of them.

How can I code it?

I'll have to figure out how to determine if the last letter is a number.

<br/>

(examle)
in the objects in the array

`name1 : 'chair'` this

`name: 'chair'` Only the numbers should disappear neatly like this.

<br/>

**Answer**

<br/>

**Q1**

```jsx
let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9];

for (let i = 2; i < 10; i++) {
  for (let data of arr) {
    console.log(`${i} X ${data} = ` + i * `${data}`);
  }
}
```

<br/>

**Q2**

Key point

`isNaN(parseInt('123'))`

<br/>

```jsx
let newValue;
let newKey;

for (let item of products) {
  for (let key in item) {
    //If NaN does not come out when the last character is converted to a number (if it is a number)
    if (isNaN(parseInt(key.slice(-1))) == false) {
      newValue = item[key];
      newKey = key.slice(0, -1);
      item[newKey] = newValue;
      delete item[key];
    }
  }
}

console.log(products);
```
