---
layout: post
title: "Spread, REST parameter exercises"
summary: "8 spread, rest parameter exercises"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-03-09 15:31:20 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/rest.jpeg
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/spread-rest-exercises/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

<br/>

### **1. `spread` problem**

<br/>

```jsx
var a = [1, 2, 3];
var b = "ET";
var c = [...b, ...a];
console.log(c);
```

What is the output of the code above?

<br/>

### A

This will output an `array` named `['E', 'T', 1, 2, 3 ]`.

If you `spread' the letters, each letter is divided into commas.

`spread` an `array` removes square brackets.

<br/>

### **2. `spread` problem**

<br/>

```jsx
var a = [1, 2, 3];
var b = ["you", "are"];
var c = function (a, b) {
  console.log([[...a], ...[...b]][1]);
};
c(a, b);
```

What is the output of the code above with a lot of square brackets?

<br/>

### A

It tells us to put the data named a and b into the function `c` and execute it.

The function of `c` may seem complicated, but

<br/>

If you look at these codes one by one, it's not a big deal.

`[ [...a], ...[...b] ][1]` where a and b are put

`[ [1,2,3], ...['you', 'are'] ][1]` and removing `spread`

`[ [1,2,3], 'you', 'are' ][1]`, and `[1]` means the first data, so if you print it out

The text `'you'` appears in the console window.

<br/>

### **3. default parameter problem**

<br/>

```jsx
function fn(a = 5, b = a * 2) {
  console.log(a + b);
  return 10;
}
fn(3);
```

What is the output of the code above?

<br/>

### A

The function can take two parameters, and we are executing it by entering `3`.

It means that only one parameter was inserted in place of a.

Then, the parameter b will have the value `a * 2` because the default parameter is triggered.

So a is 3 and b is 6.

'9' will be printed out.

<br/>

### **4. default parameter problem**

<br/>

```jsx
function fn(a = 5, b = a * 2) {
  console.log(a + b);
}
fn(undefined, undefined);
```

What is the output of the code above?

<br/>

### A

If no parameter is input to the function, `undefined` is displayed when the parameter is printed.

therefore

```jsx
function fn(a) {
  console.log(a);
}

fn();
```

The result of running this code is `undefined` .

In JavaScript functions, the parameter automatically becomes `undefined' if no parameter is passed.

So what happens if you deliberately enter `undefined` as a parameter?

It is the same as not entering parameters.

So, the default parameter is triggered and outputs the result of `15`.

<br/>

### **5. I want to create a function that creates an `array`**

<br/>

It's impractical, but let's try it.

I want to create a function that creates an `array` as it is when data is entered as a parameter.

```jsx
function arr(){
  (What code can I put in here?)
}

var newArray = arr(1,2,3,4,5);
console.log(newArray);
```

Writing this should output `[1,2,3,4,5]`.

If you put 100 numbers into the function, 100 numbers should be put in `Array`.

How can I create a function called `arr`? (Do not use new keyword)

<br/>

### A

Looks like you learned a good way to put all your parameters into an `array`.

You can use `rest` parameters.

<br/>

```jsx
function arr(...rest) {
  return rest;
}

var newArray = arr(1, 2, 3, 4, 5);
console.log(newArray);
```

Writing this will output `[1,2,3,4,5]`.

Also, no matter how many parameters you put in, an `array` is created and output.

In the previous method, you can develop similarly by using a variable called `arguments`.

<br/>

### **6. Find the maximum value**

If you want to find the maximum value in JavaScript.. you can use the built-in built-in function `Math.max()`.

```jsx
Math.max(5, 6, 4, 3);
```

If you write it like this, it will output the maximum value as '6'.

But there are quite a few numbers that I want to check the max value of.

<br/>

```jsx
var numbers = [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, 3, 2, 5, 5, 4, 6, 7];
```

I want to put it in `Math.max()`, but how should I do it?

<br/>

### A

If you want to put all data in `array` in `Math.max()`

Wouldn't it be better to unpack `array` and put it in?

```jsx
var numbers = [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 1, 3, 2, 5, 5, 4, 6, 7];

console.log(Math.max(...numbers));
```

If you write like this, it will find the maximum value among `array` data.

That's it.

Why is it written in function parenthesis but not a rest parameter?

When declaring a function, `...` is a rest parameter

When using functions, `...` is the spread operator.

<br/>

### **7. I want to create a function that sorts letters alphabetically.**

<br/>

First of all, when JavaScript wants to sort the data in `array` alphabetically

It is used by appending the `array` built-in function called `sort()`. (applicable only to `array`)

```jsx
console.log(["b", "c", "a"].sort());

//['a', 'b', 'c']
```

You can easily sort by adding `sort()` like this. That's it.

<br/>

However, we want to create an alphabetical sorting function that can be applied to strings as well as to `array`.

```jsx
function sortFn(){
  (What code can I put in here?)
}

sortFn('bear');
```

If you use `sortFn('bear')`

What should I do if I want to make it output in alphabetical order like `a b e r` in the console window?

(you can use the `sort()` function)

<br/>

### A

You said you could use the `sort()` function, but unfortunately `sort` can only be used with `array`.

Then, if you just make an `array` of the characters, you can use the `sort` function, so wouldn't it be an easy solution?

Put the character `bear` into an array like `['b', 'e', 'a', 'r']` and sort the alphabet.

then what should i do

<br/>

```jsx
function sortFn(str) {
  console.log([...str].sort());
}

sortFn("bear");
```

With `[...str]`, `str` is unpacked with `spread` and put back into `array`.

Like `['b', 'e', 'a', 'r']`.

Then, sort this with `sort()` and you're done, right?

<br/>

And if you want to put square brackets on the sorted data

<br/>

```jsx
function sortFn(str) {
  console.log(...[...str].sort());
}

sortFn("bear");
```

Wouldn't it be nice to write `spread` there again?

Then, `a b e r` will be printed in order in the console window. That's it.

<br/>

### **8. Create a data mining function**

<br/>

There is a function that data analysis people often create and use.

This function counts the number of occurrences of an alphabet. Let's make one too.

<br/>

Enter `countStr**('aacbbb')**` in the console window.

**`{ a: 2, b: 3, c: 1 }`**

<br/>

▲ I want to create a function called count() that prints like this.

To put it simply, it is a function that counts the number of alphabets in the input word, records it in an object, and outputs it.

How can I create a function called counting?

<br/>

### A

It's no big deal, and you can run a loop over the text.

You can just use a loop, or you can use a `forEach()` loop to make it simpler.

`forEach()` is a function that can only be attached to `array`.

If you want to attach it to a letter... wouldn't it be possible to make the letter into an 'array'?

<br/>

```jsx
function countStr(str) {
  var result = {};
  [...str].forEach(function (a) {});
}
```

So, if you insert letters into the function, use `spread` to save each alphabet in an array.

And I ran a `forEach` loop there.

Then, the repetition statement runs as many times as the number of each alphabet in the letter,

As the loop loops, the value a becomes **each alphabet**.

<br/>

Now, since the loop runs as much as each alphabet, you can develop the function inside the loop.

If there is an item called `result**[a]** (result.a)` in the object named `result`, add 1 to the value

If not, please register as 1~ (a: 1 like this) I think you can write the code.

So I tried it.

<br/>

```jsx
function countStr(str) {
  var result = {};
  [...str].forEach(function (a) {
    if (result[a] > 0) {
      result[a]++;
    } else {
      result[a] = 1;
    }
  });
  console.log(result);
}
```

(`result[a]` is how to extract data from within an object.)

And I wrote a code to output the result to the console window after the loop runs.

It prints fine.
