---
layout: post
title: "Object-Oriented 3"
summary: "Object oriented 3. A few features of the prototype"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-03-14 14:50:21 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/obj.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/object-oriented/3
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

<br/>
<span style="color: red"></span>

### **One. `prototype` is secretly created only for `constructor` functions.**

<br/>

Even if you create a plain `object`, `array`, etc., there is no `prototype`.

That's it.

So what if you want to inherit something like a plain `object`?

Either create a `constructor` function.. Or use `Object.create()`, as we will tell you next time, or `class`, or one of the three.

<br/>

### **2. If you want to find the genes of your parents, you can print `__proto__`.**

<br/>

Child `object`s created from the parent have a property called `__proto__`.

If you print this out, the **parent's `prototype`** will be printed out.

So **`__proto__` has the same meaning as the parent's `prototype`**.

Let's print it out for real.

<br/>

```jsx
function machine() {
  this.name = "Kim";
  this.age = 15;
}
var student1 = new machine();
console.log(student1.__proto__);
console.log(machine.prototype);
```

`student1.__proto__`

`machine.prototype`

If you print out each one, does it come out the same?

Anyway, **"`__proto__` means the parent `prototype`"**.

You can just think of `__proto__` as such a value that can be used when you want to genetically test what your parent's gene is.

<br/>

### **3. If you register `__proto__` directly, you can implement inheritance function between `object`.**

<br/>

`__proto__` means `prototype` of parent.

So what if we forcibly set a `__proto__` on some `object`?

Oh, there are parents like this.

It's a kind of genetic engineering, let's try it.

<br/>

```jsx
var parent = { name: "Kim" };
var child = {};

child.__proto__ = parent;
console.log(child.name);
```

Now we have created parent and child objects one by one.

And on the third line, we put the parent in the child's `__proto__`.

Then, the parent gene of the child becomes an object named `{ name : 'Kim' }`.

After that, the child is now free to use the `child .name` property.

You can also implement the inheritance function like this.

<br/>
