---
layout: post
title: "ES6 Promises Explained in Human Language"
summary: "About ES6 Promises design pattern"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-02-17 14:37:05 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/js-promise.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/promise/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

Those who do not like the callback function design pattern

You can use the Promise design pattern.

<br/>

This isn't a new feature of JavaScript, it's just a code/function design pattern.

### **Try to use Promise**

<br/>

```jsx
var pro = new Promise();

pro.then(function () {}).catch(function () {});
```

that's it!
If you create a variable object called Promise with the `new Promise()` syntax, Promise production is finished.

Then, it can be executed by attaching `then()` to a variable called a promise.

When the code inside the promise completes execution, the code inside the `then()` function is executed.

If the code execution fails, the code in the `catch()` function is executed.

Promises are a design pattern that helps you execute code sequentially in this way.

**Promises are better than callback functions for two reasons.**
<br/>

1. Unlike callback functions, when executing something sequentially, the code does not grow sideways. Then function is attached to execute sequentially.

2. You can write code that says, 'Please execute a specific code in case of failure', which is impossible with a callback function. (catch)

### **Promise meaning and usage**

<br/>

**Execute then() on success, catch() on failure~**
Promise is what helps you write the code.

So, to easily define Promise, it is a **success & failure judgment machine.**

<br/>

It's easy to judge success/failure inside a promise.

```jsx
var pro = new Promise(function (sucess, fail) {
  sucess();
});

pro.then(function () {}).catch(function () {});
```

If you add a callback function in `Promise()`, you can make a success/failure decision within it.

If you write the first parameter as `success()` in the form of a function, it will be judged as success.

If you write the second parameter as `fail()` in the form of a function, it will be judged as failure.

<br/>

The above code is supposed to execute `success()` unconditionally, so it judges success unconditionally.

After that, the code in `then()` is executed.

<br/>

Let's see an example of actual use.

<br/>

### 1. To run specific code after success?

```jsx
var pro = new Promise(function (sucess, fail) {
  var arithmetic = 1 + 1;
  pro();
});

pro
  .then(function () {
    console.log("sucess");
  })
  .catch(function () {});
```

Added a function that performs mathematical operations in `Promise()`.

And I added code to execute the `success()` code when the operation is complete.

(General codes are executed one after the other if written side by side like this)

<br/>

Inside the then function, you can put code to be executed when the promise succeeds.

Then the design is over.

1. Now, when the mathematical operation within the promise is completed, a `success()` decision is made,

2. In case of success, the code within `then()` is executed.

<br/>

In a promise, a failure decision can be made under certain circumstances.

```jsx
var pro = new Promise(function (sucess, fail) {
  var arithmetic = 1 + 1;
  fail();
});

pro
  .then(function () {
    console.log("arithmetic sucess");
  })
  .catch(function () {
    console.log("fail");
  });
```

The moment the function called `fail()` is executed, a failure decision is made.

Then the code in `catch()` is executed.

In case of failure, it can execute other contents, so it is much more intuitive and useful than just a callback function design.

<br/>

For reference, if you want to use the result of an operation in then

`success()` Just put it inside a function.

```jsx
var pro = new Promise(function (sucess, fail) {
  var arithmetic = 1 + 1;
  fail();
});

pro
  .then(function (result) {
    console.log("arithmetic sucess" + result);
  })
  .catch(function () {
    console.log("fail");
  });
```

<br/>

### 2. wait 1 second to run specific code after success?

```jsx
var pro = new Promise(function (sucess, fail) {
  setTimeout(function () {
    sucess();
  }, 1000);
});

pro
  .then(function () {
    console.log("sucess");
  })
  .catch(function () {
    console.log("fail");
  });
```

<br/>

### **A few features of Promises**

1. **You can see the current status by printing the variable created with new Promise() to the console window.**
   Before the success/failure judgment, `<pending>` is displayed.

   After success `<resolved>`

   After failure, `<rejected>` is returned.

2. **Promises are not code that makes synchronous asynchronous.**
   Promises have nothing to do with asynchronous execution. They're just a kind of design pattern that can make coding pretty.

<br/>
