---
layout: post
title: "this keyword 2. event listener and constructor"
summary: "Let's look at the this keyword 2. event listener and constructor"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-02-22 18:26:25 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/this.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/this2/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

To clarify the meaning of this

1. If you just use it in a normal function, window

2. An object that operates a function when used in a function (method) within an object

<br/>

### **3. When used inside a `constructor`, it means a new `object` created by the `constructor`.**

If you want to create multiple similar objects in JavaScript

Instead of copying the object, create a `constructor` and use it.

To put it simply, a constructor is a machine that copies and creates objects.

Let's see how to build a machine.

<br/>

```jsx
function machine() {
  this.name = "Kim";
}
```

Here's how to make a machine.

After making it using function syntax, inside `this.Just add something`

Here, this refers to **objects that will be newly created from the machine**.

<br/>

So what does `this.name='Kim'` mean?

It means “Please insert the value `'Kim'` into the name key value of the newly created object.”

<br/>

▼ This is how to make an object in a machine that is good to know for reference.

```jsx
function machine() {
  this.name = "Kim";
}
var obj = new machine();
```

You can use the `new` keyword to retrieve a new `object`.

<br/>

### **4. When used inside an eventlistener, this means e.currentTarget.**

<br/>

```jsx
document.getElementById("button").addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  console.log(this);
});
```

If you call this here, it has the same meaning as `e.currentTarget`.

<span style="color: red">e.currentTarget is where the current event is triggered</span>

Very simply, you mean the HTML element that is now attached with `addEventListener` .

If in doubt **e.currentTarget, this, document.getElementById('button')** You can print these three separately.

This is the final meaning of this.

<br/>

### **case 1. If you use a callback function inside an event listener, what is this?**

<br/>

```jsx
document.getElementById("button").addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  var arr = [1, 2, 3];
  arr.forEach(function () {
    console.log(this);
  });
});
```

I used a loop called `forEach()` inside the event listener.

When using `forEach()` iteration statement, `function(){}` callback function must be inserted and used. so i put it in.

<br/>

**Q. What will the output of `this` in the code above say?**

<br/>

According to the 4th meaning.. It was not written inside the eventlistener.

The inside of the eventlistener is correct, but the meaning changes because we encounter one more function inside it.

According to the 3rd meaning.. I don't think it's a constructor.

Actually, the first or second meaning of `this` is correct.

The callback function that exists like that is just the same as a normal function, so a window is displayed.

<br/>

### **case 2. If a callback function is used inside an object, what is this?**

<br/>

```jsx
var obj = {
  names : ['kim', 'lee', 'park'];
  fn : function(){
      obj.names.forEach(function(){
        console.log(this)
      });
  }
}
```

<br/>

Names and data called functions are stored in objects called obj, respectively.

I ran a forEach loop in the data called a function,

**Q.Then, what will come out if you print the value of this in here?**

<br/>

Since the function inside `forEach()` is a normal function, a `window` appears.

<br/>

So this value can change each time you encounter a function.

Sometimes it's hard to write what you want.

In that case, please change the function to an `arrow function`.

```jsx
var obj = {
  names : ['kim', 'lee', 'park'];
  fn : function(){
      obj.names.forEach(() => {
        console.log(this)
      });
  }
}
```

There is an arrow function syntax called `() => {}` that can be used instead of `function () {}`.

This is the same syntax to create a function.

This is useful when using this because it does not change the value of this inside the function.
