---
layout: post
title: "How to use Spread Operator"
summary: "How to use Spread Operator to get rid of all parentheses"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-03-02 15:32:40 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/es6.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/spread-operator/
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

<br/>

### **Let's learn ES6 Spread Operator syntax**

<br/>

If you just take three periods in a row... that's the grammar called the spread operator.

what role do you

**"The operator that removes parentheses"**.

Let's attach it to the `Array`.

<br/>

```jsx
var arr = ["hello", "world"];
console.log(arr);
console.log(...arr);
```

Then remove the parentheses attached to the `array` called arr.

▲ If you attach the spread operator like line 3 and print it out, only **'hello' and 'world'** with parentheses removed will be output to the console window.

<br/>

When applied to a text, it removes parentheses attached to the text.

Where are the parentheses? In fact, characters are very similar to the `array` datatype. You can see that there are invisible square brackets.

<br/>

```jsx
var str = "hello";
console.log(str[0]);
console.log(str[1]);
```

Did you know that str can be printed like an `array` in this way?

Even the character `hello` has the feeling of `['h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']` surrounded by square brackets.

It's not actually like that, it's a feeling, a feeling

So what happens when we append `spread` to a character?

Removes square brackets.

```jsx
var str = "hello";
console.log(str);
console.log(...str);
```

If you print the third line of the code above, the characters `h e l l o` are displayed in the console window.

**`console.log('h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o')`**

So, attaching `spread` to a character spreads the alphabet one by one.

(or just memorize that it removes invisible `square brackets` from text)

<br/>

### **Where to use this is 1. It is used very often for merging/copying Arrays.**

<br/>

What if you want to combine two arrays?

<br/>

```jsx
var a = [1,2,3];
var b = [4,5];
var c = [How to make 1,2,3,4,5 come in here?];
```

It's very easy with the `spread operator`.

<br/>

```jsx
var a = [1, 2, 3];
var b = [4, 5];
var c = [...a, ...b];
```

After doing this, if you output an `array` called `c`, it becomes `[1,2,3,4,5]`.

So let's look at the case of `array` copying.

<br/>

▼ If you want to create `b` by copying an `array` called `a`, wouldn't you normally do this?

```jsx
var a = [1, 2, 3];
var b = a;

console.log(a);
console.log(b);
```

The equal sign = makes it easy to put the value in `a` into `b`. (`[1,2,3]` Copy complete!)

However, in JavaScript, if you copy like this, it will be a big deal.

If you copy with an equal sign, `a` and `b` variables do not have `[1,2,3]` each, but **value sharing** occurs.

So, if you modify the `array` of `a`, a strange bug happens that `b` is also changed in the same way.

<br/>

```jsx
var a = [1, 2, 3];
var b = [...a];

console.log(a);
console.log(b);
```

After using spread to remove the parentheses of the `a` value, put the parentheses again.

If you do so, the value sharing of `a` and `b` variables will not occur as before.

<br/>

### **As for where to use this, 2. It is used very often for merging/copying objects.**

<br/>

Guys, what if you want to combine two `object`?

```jsx
var o1 = { a : 1, b : 2 };
var o2 = { c : 3, and all of things of o1... }
```

I want to make `o2`, but I want to take and add the contents of `o1` as it is.

Then, don't worry about how to do it, just think of `spread operator`.

This operator removes braces as well as square brackets.

So if you write

<br/>

```jsx
var o1 = { a: 1, b: 2 };
var o2 = { c: 3, ...o1 };
console.log(o2);
```

If you output an object called `o2`, it contains all the key values of `a`, `b`, and `c`.

This is because the `o1` object was added by removing the parentheses using the spread operator.

<br/>

**Note 1.**

What happens when object key values are duplicated?

```jsx
var o1 = { a: 1, b: 2 };
var o2 = { a: 3, ...o1 };
console.log(o2);
```

I want to create `o2` by adding an item `o1`, but the key value `a` already exists.

If the value 'a' is duplicated like this, **the `a` that follows unconditionally** wins.

So, if you print it out, it contains the data `a : 1`.
