---
layout: post
title: "Object-Oriented 5"
summary: "Object oriented 5. extends / super to copy the class"
author: ge5rg2
date: "2023-03-21 11:21:30 +0900"
category: javascript
thumbnail: /assets/img/posts/obj.png
keywords: javascript
permalink: /blog/object-oriented/5
usemathjax: true
---

[Reference](https://codingapple.com/)

<br/>
<span style="color: red"></span>

Let's learn `extends`, the ultimate JavaScript object-oriented syntax.

It's not difficult, just a few more things to memorize.

<br/>

### **Use `extends` when you want to create a `class` that inherits `class`**

Let's say you made a grandpa `class`.

The grandfather `class` has attributes named first and last name.

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
}
```

Then `new grandfather**()` Well, you can easily create a new `object` by doing something like this, right?

However, this `class` is so useful that I would like to create another `class` similar to it.

Then, you can create another `class` yourself and copy and paste the contents, right?

However, if there is too much to copy inside `class`, the code will be too long.

<br/>

So ancient developers created a grammar called `extends`.

If you create a 'class' using this, you can copy and paste the contents of the existing 'class' as it is.

To put it simply, it is "a grammar that helps to inherit and create other `classes`."

<br/>

So let's create a father `class` that inherits from the grandfather `class`. Follow me.

<br/>

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
}

class father extends grandfather {}
```

`extends` can be written like this:

Then, a `class` called `father` is created by copying and pasting the `class` called grandfather as it is.

If you want to check whether a real `class` has been created, you can test it like `new father();`.

<br/>

**`new** father**('minso');**`If you do this, an`object` data with lastName and firstName will be created.

You have the same `class` as your grandfather, right? End of `extends` syntax!

<br/>

### **But if you want to add a new attribute to `class` called father**

Of course, you can add content inside the father `constructor`.

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
}

class father extends grandfather {
  constructor() {
    this.age = 50;
  }
}
```

This way, objects created when `new father()` will have `{lastName, firstName, age}` properties.

But this gives me an error.

I get an error that I need to use `super`.

Then just write `super`.

<br/>

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
}

class father extends grandfather {
  constructor() {
    super();
    this.age = 50;
  }
}
```

A strange function called `super()`

**"means the `constructor()` of the parent `class` inheriting by `extends`"**. (memory items)

To put it simply, **grandfather's `class` `constructor()`** is the same as this. (need to memorize)

So now you can add `this`. or something like this without errors. (Memorization)

<br/>

But you could pass a `name` parameter to the `constructor()` of your grandfather `class`, right?

You have to specify it in the same way so that you can inherit all the properties of your grandfather exactly.

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
}

class father extends grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    super(name);
    this.age = 50;
  }
}
```

Just as the grandfather `constructor()` had a `name` parameter, the father `constructor()` also followed it.

(Parameter naming is possible freely)

Now, if you enter a parameter when you do `new father();`, it will enter the `this.name` property.

<br/>

So let's predict.

<br/>

**Q. If you write `var a = new father('minso');` at the bottom of the code above, what will the variable `a` contain?**

<br/>

- **Did you guess**

  1.  The variable named `a` is a newly created object from the `class` called the father.

  2.  So, I inherited the `lastName, firstName` from my grandfather and the `age` from my father.

  3.  Then, put `'minso'` in place of `this.firstName` and run it.
      So `{ lastName : 'Kim', firstName : 'minso', age : 50 }` becomes an object.

<br/>

### **If you add a method (function) to grandpa**

If I add a function inside the grandfather `class`, can the children of the father `class` inherit it?

Could you try an experiment?

<br/>

```jsx
class grandfatehr {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
  sayHi() {
    console.log("Hello I'm grandpa");
  }
}

class father extends grandfatehr {
  constructor(name) {
    super(name);
    this.age = 50;
  }
}

var a = new father("minso");
```

Then, can the object named `a` use the function `sayHi()`?

- You can write.

<br/>

If an object named `a` uses `a.sayHi()` like this

1. Ask if the object named `a` has `sayHi`

2. If not, ask if `father.prototype` has `sayHi`

3. If not, ask if `sayHi` exists in `grandfather**.prototype`

In this way, it looks up to run `sayHi`.

<br/>

But `sayHi()` is a function added to `grandfather.prototype`

An object named `a` can execute `sayHi()` function.

<br/>

### **But what if you want to inherit functions between `classes`?**

<br/>

What do you mean... I want to create a function in a `class` called father.

However, the `sayHi()` function in the grandfather `class` was very useful.

I want to bring this to my father 'class' as it is and use it.

What should I do?

<br/>

You can also use `super` here.

```jsx
class grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    this.lastName = "Kim";
    this.firstName = name;
  }
  sayHi() {
    console.log("Hello I'm grandpa");
  }
}

class father extends grandfather {
  constructor(name) {
    super(name);
    this.age = 50;
  }
  sayHi2() {
    console.log("Hello I'm father");
    super.sayHi();
  }
}

var a = new father("minso");
```

If you use `super` inside the `prototype` function like that, it has a slightly different meaning from `super` earlier.

`super` here means `prototype` of **parent** `class`.

okay? `super` has two meanings.

<br/>

**1. If used inside a `constructor`, the `constructor`** of the parent `class`

**2. If used inside a `prototype` function, the `prototype`** of the parent `class`

no see. Oh, it's hard to memorize, so let's just know number 2 as a reference.

<br/>

**Q. So what will be printed to the console window when `a.sayHi2()` is executed in the example code above?**

<br/>

- **Let's predict exactly once and spread it out**
  If you use `a.sayHi2()`, the `sayHi2` function in `father.prototype` will work.

  The function once executes `console.log("Hello I'm father")` and

  The second line executes `super.sayHi()`. In other words, it is the same as `garandfather.prototype.sayHi()`
  It will run `console.log("Hello I'm grandpa")`.

  So `"Hello I'm father"`, `"Hello I'm grandpa"` are printed in the console window.
